report statt paper

Kapazität der Spule berücksichtigen


4. PGSE


6 Relaxationskontrast

Further Questions:

1. What are some examples of contrast agents currently used in MRI? What are they used for?
Earth’s Field NMR Experiments 6-3
COPYRIGHT © 2009 Magritek Ltd
2. What is a T2 weighted image in MRI? What is a T1 weighted image in MRI? What kind of
contrast would a chemical such as CuSO4 create in a T2 weighted image? In a T1 weighted
image?


The goal of the experiment is for the student to understand that the paramagnetic contrast agent
decreases both T2 and T1. This experiment also aims to show the student how, with the right
manipulation of the experimental parameters, the decrease in T1 can actually result in an increase in
signal despite the corresponding decrease in T2.


The student should also observe a T2 effect between the pure water and the doped water samples. In
the case of pure water, the FID signal should be observed to persist for much longer than the FID
acquired from the doped water sample. This implies that the contrast agent decreases T2 in addition to
decreasing T1.



7. Magnetic Resonance Imaging in 1D

Further Questions:

1. Why might short echo times be valuable in gradient echo imaging? How might you reduce
your echo time while keeping the echo in the centre of the acquisition window?
2. Why do you think it is very important to have a well shimmed system when acquiring gradient
echo images?

The student is asked to derive the relationship
between the FOV and G using the k-space
vector. The derivation is as follows:
(70)


If the student increases the field of view the object will appear smaller because with a larger field of
view the sample takes up less of the available space. The opposite is true for a decrease in the field of
view. The nominal frequency resolution of the image is f/N = 2 Hz. The linewidth of the real peak,
as measured using the pulse and collect experiment is likely to be similar to this resolution. If the
linewidth is greater than the nominal resolution then the resolution of the image is limited by the
linewidth rather than the pixel size in the image.




11. Relaxation contrast imaging


Further Questions
1. In Earth’s field NMR, the segregation of the polarisation and detection fields through the use
of a pre-polarising pulse means that the T1 relaxation occurs only during this pulse. However,
in high field applications T1 relaxation occurs at all times because the polarisation and
detection fields are one and the same. How then is T1 contrast introduced on a traditional high
field MRI instrument?
2. What type of contrast is used to capture the BOLD response in functional MRI (fMRI)?



For a sample containing a short T1 species and a long T1 species, a short tpolz will make the short T1
region appear brighter than the long T1 region. A very long tpolz will result in no contrast between
regions. As illustrated by equation 11-1, the short T1 species requires only a short polarisation time to
become fully polarised, whereas the long T1 species requires a long polarisation time to become
polarised. Therefore in the short polarisation time image the short T1 region will be fully polarised
whereas the long T1 region will be only partially polarised. Therefore the short T1 region will appear
brighter. As the polarisation time is increased, the long T1 region becomes more polarised and so the
contrast between the two regions becomes less until finally at a polarisation time of twice the long T1
value, there is virtually no T1 contrast in the image.


In the case of a liquid with short T1 and T2, T1 contrast should be used to obtain positive contrast. In the
case of the target liquid having long T1 and T2, T2 contrast should be used to obtain positive contrast.
The following example data was acquired with a sample of tap water with T1 = 2.3 ± 0.1 s and T2 =
1.82 ± 0.05 s and a sample of water doped with CuSO4 with a T1 = 310 ± 20 ms and T2 = 330 ± 10 ms.


12. J-Coupling

Further Questions:
1. What are some other nuclei that are used in NMR and MRI? Why are these nuclei of interest?
2. What are the key differences between spin ½ and higher spin nuclei in the context of NMR
and MRI?
3. What other common molecular interactions can typically be identified in NMR spectra? Why
would these be difficult to resolve in the spectrum acquired with an Earth’s field NMR system?
4. What are some examples of 2D spectroscopy methods? What are some of the advantages of
resolving spectra in multiple dimensions?


In the second portion of the experiment the student is asked to predict the form of the spectrum of
2,2,2-trifluoroethanol (see Figure 12- 3). This is essentially a system of three 19F nuclei coupled to two
1H nuclei and one additional uncoupled proton. Therefore the fluorine signal will be a triplet with
peaks in a 1:2:1 ratio and separated by J. The protons will be a quadruplet in a 1:3:3:1 ratio plus a
central uncoupled peak. This central peak is from the OH proton which experiences a net J coupling of
zero because it is in rapid chemical exchange. In total there will be five proton peaks in a 1:3:4:3:1
ratio. The quadruplet peaks will all be separated by J with the uncoupled OH peak in the centre.

The average value for the J coupling according to the table above is 8.5 ± 0.6 Hz. The actual spectrum
will deviate from this prediction because the J coupling constant does not fulfill the weak coupling
constraint of an AX system in the Earth’s magnetic field. The hetero-nuclear J coupling constant is
approximately 8.5 Hz. Given the 136 Hz difference in Larmor frequency in the example above the
second order splitting would be 0.5 Hz. While this splitting may not be resolved in the experimental
spectrum it will most certainly broaden the peaks and cause some apparent asymmetry in the spectrum.
A simulated spectrum of 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol in the Earth’s field with a coupling constant of 8.5 Hz is
included below (Figure 12- 5) to illustrate this point.


The total integral of the Fluorine peaks is 5.29 in the experimental spectrum, while the integral of the
proton peaks is 5.31. Due to the 94% difference in the gyromagnetic ratios of 1H and 19F and the fact
that there are 3 of each nuclei in each molecule of trifluoroethanol, it is expected that the total fluorine
signal should be (0.94)3 = 0.83 (83%) of the total proton signal. The fluorine signal is much higher
than expected in this example. This is likely because the outermost proton peaks are not very well
resolved in this rather noisy measurement and so the total proton signal is underestimated.